Stories on Cross-Discipline Data Discovery
==========================================

In the following, we collect user stories as they might happen in an
ideal future, where cross-discipline data discovery and usage are more
or less a reality. Some of the following may already be reasonably
possible.

Pull requests for additional stories (I guess in README.md will be fine
until we have a lot more) or amendments for existing stories are most
welcome.

To keep diffs tidy, please try to keep line lengths below 80 (and accept
unbalanced lines in the source).  If you have rst2pdf installed, you can
just run make to create a PDF rendering of this.

Archeoastronomy
---------------

Archeologers find an odd correlation in the orientations of gaps in
palisade rings of about 3000 BCE shown in ground radar images. They
suspect that the structures might have served as calendars or
observatories and would like to see what the gaps might have pointed at
at different times of the year back at construction time.

They discover a service that lets its users determine (obviously, among
many other things), object positions in the horizon system at arbitrary
times within several 1e4 years and use that to see what objects were
visible in the gaps at dawn and dusk and find that the gaps point
towards some speficic bright star at spring and autumn solstice.


Supernova Science on the Ocean Floor
------------------------------------

Astronomers investigate supernova remnants close to the solar system. To
link the time scales of their evolution to Earth time scales, they are
interested in finding data of chemical anomalies (e.g., the presence of
Fe-60 or overabundances of Ni-60) in Earth sediments.

They discover a set of services giving precise, time-registered
abundances in ocean drill cores. Fortunately, all follow an easily
discoverable standard, and so they find that about 1.5 million years ago
the Earth received a major intake of r-process elements, pointing
towards a supernova that exploded reasonable close to Earth in that
timeframe.

Going on, they might want to discover a paleontology database to see if
any influence of that putative event on speciation can be found.


Spectral Lines
--------------

A chemist does optical spectrography on some (very rarefied) sample.
They see a line they've not yet seen and would like to know what could
possibly generate it.

They discover line databases from various sciences and eventually finds
astronomers have found the same line in planetary nebulae long ago and
figured out it is a forbidden line of ionised Silicon.


Milankovitch Cycles
-------------------

When calibrating the geologic record using solar system dynamics (cf.  a
blog post on `using Milankovic cycles` in astrochronology), geologists
will want to locate different long-time simulations of solar system
dynamics; and conversely, groups investigating the secular evolution of
the solar system could use the geological record to see if their
simulations are consistent with the constraints of, say,
paleoclimatology.

.. _using milankovitch cycles: https://blogs.egu.eu/geolog/2020/11/20/using-milankovitch-cycles-to-create-high-resolution-astrochronologies/
